the data analysis process phases:
1) Ask 
2) prepare 
3) process
4) analyze
5) share
6) Act

how do we know that data has a life cycle?

ans:starts with the right data analysis tool.
These includes spreadsheets ,databases,query languages,and software visualization 
software.
life cycle of data is :
1) plan
2) capture
3) manage
4) analyze 
5) archive 
6) destroy
planning happens well before starting an analysis project.
During planning ,a business decides what kind of data it needs.
how will it be managed throughout the life cycle,
who will be responsible for it and the optimal outcomes.
lets say an electricity provider wanted to gain insights into how to save people 
energy.

planning phase:
they might decide to capture information on how much electricity its customer 
use each year ,what types of buildings are being powered,and what types of devices are being powered
inside them.The electricity company would also decide which team members will be 
responsible for collecting ,storing and sharing that data All of this happens 
during planning,and it helps set up the rest of the project.
The next phase is when you capture data.
This is where data is collected from a variety of different sources and brought
into the organization.
With so much data being created evryday the ways are endless to collect it.
getting data from outside resources.
publicly available dataset like the national climatic data center.
company's own documents and files,which are usually stored inside a databases

Database-->its a collection of data stored in a computer system.
In case of our electricity provider,the business would probably measure data
usage among customers within a database that it owns.As a quick note,when 
you maintain a datbase of customer information,ensuring data integrity,
credibility and privacy are all important concerns.
manage--->this is very important phase to data cleansing.
Analyze-->data is used to solve problem make great decisions and 
support business goals.
Archive-->means storing data in a place where its still available but
may not be used again.
During analysis,analysts had a huge amounts of data.
destoy--> data erasure software is used for this ,important for protecting the 
company's private information,as well as private data about its customers.
               
